# project-1-challenge-beer-rating-data
 
MSU Data Analytics BootCamp - Project 1

Code file name: 'beer_ratings_project.ipynb'

This Jupyter Notebook was created to support the following data analysis:

Here, I attempted to examine if any strong and consistent positive association exists between an indicator of objective quality (winning an international expert panel-judged competition) and subjective consumer ratings for a product that is heavily influenced by personal taste, in this case online beer ratings.

The notebook reads in and formats data from the Stanford University SNAP RateBeer dataset from 2013 and performs sets of statistical analyses on the rating data to examine the above relationship.

As coded, analyses results are primarily displayed within the Notebook, but could be adjusted to output to PNG/CSV files (or other files) if necessary.

The repository also contains the output files generated by the notebook in a directory called 'output_data'. The curated medal winning beer input file can be found in a directory called 'data'. The main RateBeer data file was much too large for a GIT repository, but can be found at https://www.ratebeer.com/api.asp.


*Code sourcing statement*
-----------------------

I did use a natural language description of the desired code's functions entered into ChatGPT 3.5 to help with code syntax. I did copy pieces of that code in order to be more efficient, but I tailored it to fit all of the desired functions of this paricular project. For this particular challenege, I did also copy code from StackExchange relating to the formatting of data for use in a chi-sqaure goodness of fit. I did not directly copy and paste any of this code from the internet otherwise (e.g., from StackExchange or any other webpage). I did not seek any assistance or use code written by my peers or instructors for this challenge.

End of code sourcing statement.

 -----------------------
